#summary System prerequisites for CUDA programming.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Prerequisites =

To get started programming with CUDA, download and install the [http://www.nvidia.com/getcuda CUDA Toolkit and developer driver].  The toolkit includes `nvcc`, the NVIDIA CUDA Compiler, and other software necessary to develop CUDA applications. The driver ensures that GPU programs run correctly on [http://www.nvidia.com/object/cuda_gpus.htm CUDA-capable hardware], which you'll also need.

You can confirm that the CUDA Toolkit is correctly installed on your machine by running `nvcc --version` from a command line.  For example, on a Mac OSX machine,

{{{
$ nvcc --version
nvcc: NVIDIA (R) Cuda compiler driver
Copyright (c) 2005-2009 NVIDIA Corporation
Built on Thu_Mar_11_12:08:00_PST_2010
Cuda compilation tools, release 3.0, V0.2.1221
}}}

outputs the compiler information. If the previous command was not successful, then the CUDA Toolkit is likely not installed, or the path to `nvcc` (`C:\CUDA\bin` on Windows machines, `/usr/local/cuda/bin` on POSIX OSes) is not part of your `PATH` environment variable.

Additionally, you'll also need a _host compiler_ which works with `nvcc` to compile and build CUDA programs.  On Windows, this is `cl.exe`, the Microsoft compiler, which ships with Microsoft Visual Studio. On POSIX OSes, this is `gcc` or `g++`.  The official CUDA [http://www.nvidia.com/getcuda Getting Started Guides] can tell you which compiler versions are supported on your particular platform.

To make sure everything is set up correctly, let's compile and run a trivial CUDA program to ensure all the tools work together correctly.

{{{
#include <stdio.h>

__global__ void foo()
{
}

int main()
{
  foo<<<1,1>>>();
  printf("CUDA error: %s\n", cudaGetErrorString(cudaGetLastError()));  
  return 0;
}
}}}

To compile this program, copy it to a file called `test.cu` and compile it from the command line.  For example, on a Mac OSX system, the following should work:

{{{
$ nvcc test.cu -o test
$ ./test 
CUDA error: no error
}}}

If the program succeeds without error, then let's [TutorialAHeterogeneousProgrammingModel start coding]!


=Using the Pups Cluster=
Machines 1-10 and 12 of the pups cluster has CUDA-enabled GPUs in them. You can use these machines locally or remotely. To remotely access a machine, ssh into the specific machine you want:
{{{
ssh pup1.stanford.edu
}}}
Your username and password is your sunet id. You will encounter errors if you try to compile without setting up your environment correctly. To do so, you need to add nvcc to your path, and have your linker library path set to point to the cuda library path.

If you're using c-shell (the default), please add the following to the .cshrc file in your home directory:

{{{
setenv PATH ${PATH}:/usr/local/cuda/bin
setenv LD_LIBRARY_PATH /usr/local/cuda/lib64
}}}

If you're using bash, please add the following to your .bashrc file in your home directory:

{{{
export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/cuda/bin
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/cuda/lib64
}}}